78% of women want to date a man who is
as educated or as employed as they are.
This is just a straight up imbalance.
And this is what I've called the tall
girl problem. So Chris Williamson, he is
an entrepreneur, former club promoter
turned podcaster with more than 70
million downloads.
How did I get here?
Chris, are you aware of the dark side
that's driving you?
I really want to go here. I've been
chronically unpopular throughout all of
school, badly bullied, didn't have a
group of friends, so [music] I'd
compromised an awful lot of who I truly
was to try and just be as popular and
successful in that world as possible.
But there was a ambient sense that
something is broken with me in a
journal. I I've got a couple of
different entries and it just put I
think I'm lonely. 15% of men say that
they have zero close friends.
Where did we go wrong? The world of
social connection has been made less and
less social. The single biggest
predictor of your health outcomes in
life are the number of close connections
that you have. It's more than going to
the gym. It's more than stopping
drinking. People that are in
relationships have better health
outcomes. But one in three men between
the ages of 18 and 30 hasn't had sex in
the last year. 80% of men report not
approaching a woman because they are
scared of being seen as creepy. And by
2040, 45% of 25 to 45year-old women will
be single and childless. You can start
to see how this imbalance could cause a
problem. This is a very difficult
conversation. The first thing that we
need to [music] do is
before this episode starts, I have a
small favor to ask from you. 2 months
ago, 74% of people that watch this
channel didn't subscribe. We're now down
to 69%.
My goal is 50%. So, if you've ever liked
any of the videos we've posted, if you
like this channel, can you do me a quick
favor and hit the subscribe button? It
helps this channel more than you know,
and the bigger the channel gets, as
you've seen, the bigger the guests get.
Thank you and enjoy this episode.
[music]
Chris,
you do a lot of things and you do a lot
of things very, very well.
One of the struggles I had when thinking
about how to direct this conversation
was really like understanding because
you're so diverse in your thinking and
your ideas and the subject matter that
you're curious about, how to try and
encapsulate exactly who you are. So I
guess the question I wanted to start
with is in your own words, what is your
mission?
I'm a very curious person. I always have
been. And I now have the opportunity
with my podcast Modern Wisdom to
commercialize, utilize, weaponize that
so that I can bring people in that I'm
interested in. So a good example, I did
a master's and a bachelor's degree at
uni in business. And I always regretted
not going and doing philosophy or
psychology. And in retrospect, it always
made me resentful of uni a little bit
because I'd spent all of this time
learning stuff that didn't teach me
anything about the business world. But
then upon starting the podcast, what I
realized was that I've been able to
design my perfect university degree with
the top lecturers on the planet and I
get to do it three times a week at the
cadence that I want. And not only do I
get the lecturers that I want, but I get
to ask them about the specific area of
their work that I want as well. So, it's
curiosity. The thing that drives me is
curiosity. The reason that I do this is
because I want to know I want to know
about everything. I want to know about
why the guy that was sat next to us at
dinner last night decided to wear a suit
with like Converse like I want to know
what is it about that? Uh so curiosity
that answer is um focused on what you
get from it right is there an sort of an
external mission something that it gives
to the world that you're particularly
and something that provides you meaning
by delivering it to the world is there
is there an answer there too
yeah so toward the end of my 20ies I had
a lot of the trappings of success that
maybe society would tell you that you
should have so uh running this big
nightlife events business which I was
very proud of and still Um, but there
was something missing despite the fact
that I had the blue tick on Twitter and
the free charcoal toothpaste and I'd
been on Love Island and Take Me Out and
people knew my name and I had, you know,
monetary success and status and stuff,
but there was something missing. And I
didn't really understand myself
particularly well. And I think that
that's a problem that a lot of people
get to, especially guys toward the end
of their 20s. They think all of the
values that I have absorbed that are
supposed to be the things that make me
happy maybe don't fulfill me in the way
that they were promised. And that
required me to do some reflection. And I
realized I actually didn't have very
many opinions. What I'd been doing was
I'd been playing a role as this big name
on campus, party boy, club promoter, big
dick around town guy. And I'd
compromised an awful lot of who I truly
was to try and just be as popular and
successful in that world as possible.
Right? What that meant was I didn't
really understand myself. I didn't
really understand my mission or my
purpose. And now looking back, I
realized that all of the steps that I
took to get from where I was to where I
am now, which is still like an adult
infant, but slightly less so. All of
that they are lessons that I can gift to
other people that will help them to
expedite success, avoid the pitfalls, do
it in less time, with less loneliness,
with less pain and suffering than I had
to go through to achieve the same thing.
And hopefully
by speaking to people that changed my
life, that gave me lessons, I can then
pass those on to other people and get
them from where I was to somewhere
that's even better than where I am now.
Okay. So, take me back. What are the
dominoes that fell or the connecting
dots that took you to that point where
you were the party boy on campus that
was on Take Me Out on TV and running
club nights? Take me back to the start.
What are the most important things I
need to know about that early experience
that took you to that moment?
Arrive at university in Newcastle and
I've been chronically unpopular
throughout all of school. Uh pretty
badly bullied, pretty alone. I'm an only
child and just didn't have a a squad.
didn't have a a group of friends really.
Was successful in in sports and had a
team but didn't really have a a tight
group of friends. Got to college and
that was a little bit better. Started to
come out of my shell a little bit but
still not much. And then you get to uni
and the same as every school kid, you
know, you'd go home for summer and you'd
be like, I'm going to reinvent myself
and I'm going to be the cool kid. So I
arrived at university and that was a
good intersection of a new opportunity
to be a new person and also maybe a
little bit more social ability. Start
running a nightlife events business with
the guy that I sit next to in my first
ever seminar. After that we get to the
stage where that's very successful very
quickly. I immediately tied a lot of my
identity to the first thing I've ever
been super successful in in life which
is running a night life. I can get
renown. I can have uh people that need
me, which is not really the same as
wanting me, but they need me, which is
close enough. So, I think, right, well,
if I just throw all of myself into this
business, then I'm going to be accepted
by the world at large, and over the
space of the next 10 years or so, that
meant that I uh fully dedicated myself
to that mission. And we were very, very
good at it. We expanded from Newcastle
to Manchester, multiple nights per week,
across multiple cities. And then I did
whatever it took to get more clout as
well. So Take Me Out, then first season
of Love Island, first person through the
doors on Love Island. And I spend all of
this time. And Love Island was an
interesting reflection period because
there was nowhere for me to hide. No
distractions, no TV, no phone, no
laptop, no friends, no books, no
nothing. Right? There's just you and
this group of people. [snorts] And the
group of people that were in the Love
Island villa were genuine versions of
the person that I thought I was. I
thought that I was this big name on
campus party boy. And then I get
deposited into this inescapable
uh weaponsgrade bunker of those party
boys and party girls. And I look around
and go, "Ah, [sighs] I'm not supposed to
be here. Something's off. Something's
discordant. It's not working." And then
I get out and it wasn't like and then
[clears throat] the skies opened and I
realized that my path was not to wear
small swim shorts on TV. Uh however, it
did make me think it was a a very I call
it a fatal dose of contrast that I was
no longer able to hide that there is
something a little bit off here. And
that was a good time. Your Jordan
Petersons, your Alanderon from the
School of Lights, your Sam Harris's,
your Joe Rogan's all coming to the
front. I start consuming their stuff and
it makes me think, wow, I I actually
this speaks to me. It helps to educate
me to be better and to understand myself
and that's kind of how I phased out I
suppose.
When you talk about struggling in school
socially,
what was the reason for that? Have you
ever sort of diagnosed why you didn't
quote unquote fit in in school?
Yeah. So uh quite I think any only child
struggles to be socialized to the level
that they need to in order to have the
same set of social skills that
anyone with a a brother or sister does,
right? Like think about how much time
you with a sibling spend arguing,
hitting each other, going to sleep, them
knocking on your door when you're trying
to get ready, arguing for the bathroom,
all of these tiny little interactions. I
had none of that. Right? And even if you
spent every waking moment of free time
in clubs and sports and whatnot that I
did, it's going to be hard. And then I
think that there is some inherent
introversion in me. And it kind of
combined for me to not really understand
other kids. Uh so I used to obsess over
things like um the kind of hairstyle
that other kids had or the way that they
tied their tie in school or the type of
shoes that they wore, the way that they
carried their bag, which shoulder their
bag was on because I was adamant. I
would fixate on that and that would be
the reason that they had friends and I
didn't because I couldn't understand why
I didn't have friends. What it was was
that I couldn't socially relate to kids
particularly well because I didn't have
a wide variety of social skills. So I
struggled but I was taking this super
attentive like what is it? What's going
on? Trying to like assess is it because
Steven wears his watch on his right
wrist instead of his left wrist? Is it
because of whatever whatever? uh because
I was trying to diagnose what was going
on.
Do you know what's driving you from, you
know, the good and the bad, the light
and the dark? I'm I'm more specifically
interested to start with the dark. Do
you ever have conversations with
yourself about the When I say dark, it's
a subjective term, but the dark side
that's driving you.
Absolutely. Yeah. Chronically, of
course. I think anybody that believes
that they're driven by a pure love uh
and positive reinforcement is usually
confused. I think that uh there was a a
study done that looked at the three most
common traits of highly successful
people, hyper successful people. We're
talking top level CEOs. The first one
was uh crippling sense of insufficiency.
The second one was a superiority
complex. And the third one was uh an
ability to have maniacal focus. So what
you have and it's this this Petersonen
story which you may be familiar with.
They starve rats and put them into a
tube. They attach a spring to the tail
of the rat so that they can tell how
much force they're pulling with. And
that gives a uh proxy for desire, right?
That's how much they want it. They waft
the smell of cheese in from the front
and the rat pulls toward the cheese. You
think these rats are starving. They're
going to be pulling very hard. Then they
take the rats out and they do another
iteration of the study. This time they
waft the smell of cheese in from the
front and they waft the smell of a cat
in from behind. The rats pull harder.
What's the lesson in life? Not only do
you need to run towards something that
you want, but you need to run away from
something that you fear. And I've spent
I've spoken to 600 high performers on my
show, right? I would say that on average
most of the people that are unbelievably
good at anything that they do are driven
by a fear of insufficiency, not by a
perfectly balanced desire for success.
And this tension between success and
happiness I think is something that both
me and you are quite interested in. So
the reason it's interesting is a lot of
the time we sacrifice the thing we want
for the thing which is supposed to get
it right. So if in service of becoming
happy we sacrifice happiness to achieve
success in the hopes that success will
make us happy. If you created an
equation of what's going on and you just
remove success from both sides, what are
you left with? Just happiness. Now, I'm
not saying that you can recant all of
your desires for status and accolade and
and striving and stuff like you need to
go out and and do things. But I do think
that a lot of the time we overco
complicate the world. And a lot of it is
because when we're [snorts] kids, our
parents will reinforce our um successes
by praising us and will criticize us
when we fail, which can metastasize as
we grow up into being I am only worthy
of love and acceptance and admiration
and praise if I win. It cause causes you
to fear being a loser more than want to
be a winner. And winning solves it's
like an anesthetic, right? that that
papers over fears of insufficiency. So
yeah, I mean when I was a club promoter,
uh I knew that if I was stood on the
front door of a nightclub that people
would need me. They want the VIP bands.
They want to be in the place where the
pretty girls are. They want to get in
for cheaper or a free bottle of vodka or
they they want to skip the queue or
whatever. So they need me. And then when
you roll it forward to the podcast, I
have to be very careful that I don't
just transmute that same energy into
instead of gifting people entry into
nightclubs, now I'm gifting them
insights that I've learned, concepts
from some interesting person that's
going to improve their life as we sit
around a dinner table or as we go out
for a lunch or whatever. I have to be
careful that that's not the case. And
for the people that maybe resonate with
this fear of insufficiency and this
requirement to offer the world something
in order for the world to feel like
they're worthy. Uh it is possible to
deprogram it. It is possible to tune
that volume down. But one of the things
that you're going to pay a price with is
your drive because the rat that is
running away from something that it
fears will pull harder than the rat
that's just running towards something
that it wants. The traits of super
competitive people don't just include
the superiority complex, but the
crippling anxiety about being a failure.
So this tension between success and
failure is
it is a driver, but it's an incredibly
toxic fuel, right? To be propelled by
fear of insufficiency can work super
well, but it it's very dangerous. As a
final example, Eddie Hall, World's
Strongest Man, and he retires on the
podium. He's holding this trophy in the
air and he's saying, "This is for you,
Nana." And his grandma's passed away
recently, and he's crying and he's 200
kilos and 6'4. And, you know, he's
worked his entire life. And he said in
an interview shortly afterward that if
he hadn't won the World's Strongest Man,
he would be dead, single, with no
relationship to his kid because he was
pushing his body so hard with the
lifting and presumably the drugs that he
was taking. He was training so much that
his relationship with his wife was
breaking down and he was out of the
house so much he had no relationship to
his kid. Jason Paran says, uh, except
that all of your heroes are full of
[__] Your heroes aren't gods. They're
just regular people who got particularly
good at one thing by sacrificing
literally everything else. That's the
price that you pay for success. And most
people wouldn't pay it.
That point about reprogramming the toxic
drive that you have. Um, I often ponder
with myself. I'm like, and when I think
about status games and how status games
that, you know, we often think that
we're over a certain status game. So,
you know, I had a um a guy on my podcast
who talked a lot about the evolutionary
basis of status and how if you go to uh
an estate in the UK where there's not a
lot of money, they'll have bigger logos
on their tracksuits.
Will store.
Will store great game.
Um, and then as people get richer and
richer, the logos get smaller and
obviously they play a different type of
game. Correct. It's about boats and
other things. And I that really hit me
like a ton of bricks because I I thought
dressed in all black, I really don't
have any. I have one material
possession. You saw it last night, which
is the bag I had on, which I'm waiting
for it to break.
Nice bag.
It's a nice bag. Yeah. Um but outside I
thought I'm over status games. And I
realized that I'm just playing a
different set of status games.
Just a counter signal. Yeah. It's the
red sneaker effect. It's the reason that
the CEO that's worth a billion can turn
up in a hoodie, but the CEO that's worth
half a million still wears a three-piece
suit.
It's called the There's another idea
called the barber pole of status. So you
can imagine that uh people who are at
the absolute top in terms of status they
need to make sure that the people below
them can't be confused for them but they
can counter signal by having the so you
look at the vagabond style of flares and
hoodie you know even essentials uh Yeezy
yay stuff all it's almost like hobo chic
why well it's because I am so cool and
so trendy that I can counter signal off
the top so everyone is playing a status
game everybody is at all times it's just
a case of what game are you playing?
And that toxic drive, the the big shift
I've had in my life is I'm now focusing
on something which is also driving me to
a more fulfilling place. Whereas before
I was focusing on like a monetary game
where I was like how much money can I
acquire? How much um how big can I build
a business? Now I'm focusing it more on
things that are more intrinsically
aligned with um that which that makes me
happy. So this for example or writing or
DJing for example, but it's still there.
So my question to you there's kind of
two questions there is what's your
journey been like with reprogramming
that that toxic driving force or that
dark driving force or those in feelings
of insufficiency and secondly you said
that we can reprogram it we can dilute
it but it comes at the cost of drive
how does one do such such a thing
so
what I was missing for me personally was
I didn't feel competent in things I
needed to feel like I was competent and
I was proving something to the world
each time that I succeeded.
Why did you need to feel competent?
Because that would solve my feelings of
insufficiency. For every time that I
won, we had a good club night, the
business was good, we broke a record
with entries at a different event or
whatever that would make me feel, yeah,
wow, I'm like less of a piece of [__]
Was there a time where you were made to
feel incompetent? I think just
chronically through my childhood of not
being super accepted, there was a
ambient sense that something is broken
with me, something is wrong because if
there wasn't something wrong, I would
have friends.
Okay,
people would want me, right? I think
that was just a relatively logical
if this then that statement that came
out of it. And um when it comes to
changing that, Alex Homozi, who you had
on the show recently, has this great
quote where he says, "You don't become
confident by shouting affirmations in
the mirror, but by having a stack of
undeniable proof that you are who you
say you are. Outwork your self-doubt."
And it wasn't until I had a project
where I could no longer deny that my
efforts were bearing fruits and that I
was becoming competent at something. It
was a a crushing amount of volume and
incontrovertible evidence that smashed
my imposter syndrome into the ground.
Did it?
Yeah. Yeah.
Do the games do the games you because
now you're in a different
differently category, right? But I feel
like I'm supposed to be here. I feel
like I deserve to be here.
You know, often my guests talk about
like that voice in their head which
whispers to them, you know, words of
self-doubt. And it seems to me like I'd
say 95% of them haven't managed to shake
that in some form. It still shows up at
some time in some place.
Well, it's still there, but it's a lot
quieter. A lot quieter. And you have to
accept after a while that if you
continue to disprove your imposter
syndrome in the real world, every single
time that you're faced with a challenge,
you succeed despite the fact that you
were adamant that you were going to fail
or you had fears of insufficiency or all
the rest of it. After a while, you have
to accept that it has nothing to do with
your competence and everything to do
with your addiction to feeling like an
imposter. You are delusional about your
competence in reverse.
Every single time that you are faced
with a challenge, you succeed. Every
single time you are faced with a future
challenge, you believe that you're going
to fail. It's got nothing to do with
your competence. So Rogan calls it um
building a mountain with layers of
paint, right? incredibly thin each time,
but after 600 episodes or however many
million dollars of revenue or whatever,
you go, maybe there's something to this,
you know, maybe I don't maybe I'm not a
totally worthless piece of [__]
On that point of how it diminishes one's
drive, have you seen a diminishment in
your drive then as your feelings of
sufficiency have improved?
No, because I have changed what is
driving me to something which is much
more aligned with who I am. So the
curiosity for me is crippling and I want
to know about everything which the my
desire to learn things is so much
stronger than any fear of insufficiency
or desire for success was ever going to
be right
that I've just supplanted one toxic type
of drive for one incredibly personal
very
scalable leverable beautiful kind of
drive. That being said, there are times
this is I I'm speaking from, you know,
the perfect version of me. That voice,
that negative voice comes in a few times
a week. It reminds me that I maybe I'm
not supposed to be here. I'm not who I
pretend to be, but it's getting quieter
and quieter and quieter. And I think
it's getting quieter because I have a
stack of undeniable proof that I'm
supposed to be here.
Do you remember the last time that voice
came in?
Yeah, I think I told you about this last
night. Uh I was I was on a podcast and
my blood sugar fell through the floor.
And what it showed me was that under
times of extreme stress, we revert back
to a voice from somewhere in our past. I
don't know who it was. I don't know
whether it was an angry parent or a
teacher that was annoyed at me or
whatever. But this voice came in and it
said, "You're not supposed to be here.
You were never supposed to be here.
You're boring. No one cares what you've
got to say. You know that you're a fake.
Everyone's going to find out.
Everybody's laughing at you. Nobody
likes you. And I thought as I'm talking
away on this show and my head is
spinning with all of this stuff and I'm
thinking, where the [__] is this voice
come from? What like who who is that? I
thought that I'd transcended this voice.
However, in a high pressure situation
when I felt bad,
something came back through. So I think
what it does remind me is that there is
always work to be done. there's always
something there that's hiding behind and
that becoming uh complacent about
personal growth is something that is
going to allow that to seep back in. You
talked about the the paint y like the
layers of paint that build confidence.
This is something that I've been
particularly compelled by because so
many people that listen to this podcast
struggle with the idea of confidence and
there's a big industry out there as
you've said that says, you know, look in
the mirror, tell yourself you're a
millionaire. Um say it three times,
write it in your journal. [laughter]
But then as I reflected and as I've
written in my my book, um the thing that
and it relates to what Alex Hozi said is
the thing that I've learned is it's all
evidence for better or for worse.
Stack of undeniable proof.
And it goes the other way. That evidence
that you got at 7 years old when you
went up and tried to do a public speech
and everyone laughed at you is more it's
a thicker layer,
correct?
Than than one layer of evidence to say
that you're you're capable. It's a
harder layer to sort of strip. Um, if
there is someone listening now and they
want to maybe orientate their drive to
the fulfilling pursuits that you talk
about, but also they want to build their
confidence, what advice would you give
them? I imagine that's 80% of the
listening basia. Act first.
Okay. [clears throat] You have to lead
with action. Because if you are someone
that deals with a crippling sense of
insufficiency,
your ability to discount
any good thoughts you have in your mind
is going to be so strong. If you try and
lead with positivity first, I need to
think it, wish it, believe it, and I
will achieve it. Your set point of
negativity is going to just crush that
into the ground. I'm speaking from
personal experience, right? As the guy
that was chronically unconfident and
still has, you know, the imposter
syndrome that does creep in.
You have to start with action. It needs
to be okay. What would have had to have
happened in a week's time for me to look
back on that week and find pride in
myself? Pride's seen as uh something
that you uh should be ashamed of. It's
one of the seven deadly sins. Uh but
David Gogggins, I did an episode with
him a couple of months ago. We can put
it in the in the show notes if people
are interested. And he said pride is
something that everybody misses. That
having pride in your name, your
performance, uh the way that you show up
for other people is something that you
can do. But you need to do something
that is worthy of being prideful about,
right? What would have had to have
happened in a week for you to look back
on that week with pride? Okay, maybe
stop breaking promises to yourself. When
you say, "I'm going to wake up tomorrow
at 7 a.m." And when the option comes to
hit the snooze button, don't do it.
There's one win that you've got for the
day. That's action, right? And it is
just, you know, it's tried to say the
Peterson clean your room thing, but the
reason that that works is that you start
with the smallest step and you expand
out from there. You want to become a
writer. You want to leave your job and
become a writer. Okay? Can you commit to
writing one blog post on Substack per
week for the next three weeks?
That would make you feel like less of a
loser if you did that. Action has to
come first if you are the sort of person
who is chronically unconfident because
you will drag your sense of identity
behind you. Mark Manson says that
identity lags behind our status by about
1 to two years. So for both me and you
in two years time, we'll go, "Ah, I
understand why I was in LA that day."
and and and look back.
Start with action and [clears throat]
make small promises to yourself that you
don't break. If you had a friend and
every single time that you and your
friend decided that you were going to go
out for dinner, that friend either
showed up 2 hours late or didn't show up
at all, you would stop trusting that
person. That is the relationship that
you have with yourself. You need to be
able to trust your own word. And a lot
of us don't because life is very
convenient and it is easy for people to
not stick to the promises that they set
themselves because our ability to be
idealistic is always going to outstrip
reality's ability to deliver that to us.
Soon as you posit an ideal, you then
begin to compare yourself to that ideal.
And true hell is when the person that
you are meets the person that you could
have been.
Sometimes I ponder how um you've
probably seen this in your own life. I'm
sure you have where you'll have a friend
in your life. I've got a couple of
friends back home who
I've tried to help in some way. Maybe
give some advice when they're struggling
in their hardest times and the advice
has been ineffective. And then you've
got another friend who will just need
one idea. They'll be listening to your
podcast and one idea will be the seed
that changes their life. I often like
think that I over overestimate the power
of words because everything you've said
there makes perfect sense.
Mhm. But we both know that 95% maybe
more of people that have just received
that it will not convert into any kind
of behavior.
Habits are hard to break, man. And the
habit of not doing things is
unbelievably difficult to get past.
It's one of the problems with
anyone that listens to your show or my
show, you will love being cerebral,
right? You will love the idea that I can
use cognitive horsepower to just get
myself out of problems. And there is a
case of learning as masturbation, right?
Uh and believing that learning about
something is the same as enacting it.
And it's not. That's why it has to be
action first.
A quote from one of my friends that he
uses when he's thinking about a concept
is, "Does this grow corn?" Basically, is
it useful? Tell me how I can use this in
my life. Does it grow [__] corn?
Right? I It's this beautifully uh
beautiful sounding concept, cognitive
bias that helps me understand the way
that my brain works and my relationship
with everybody else. How do I use that
in my life? Give me something to apply
it to. And that's why with the
confidence thing,
choose promises that you will never
break to yourself. I'm going to get up
on time for the next month. I am not
going to hit the snooze button. If you
do that and you look back in a month and
you go, "Oh my god, that's the first
time I've done that in forever." Maybe
that's a big win. And you can do the
James Clear thing. We'll write it on a
board. We'll track it. What gets like
measured, etc., etc. But the main thing
is just keep promises to yourself. And
that is a good way to go from here is an
insight I learned about I want to do
breath work, cold plunge, go to the gym,
fast until 12 midday, get up on time,
sunlight in the eyes in the whatever it
is, right, that you want to do,
turn it into a promise. Don't break the
promise.
One of the really important things you
said there was about the size of that
first step. I I was reflecting there on
the way that video games are designed to
make sure that every subsequent level is
not too intimidating that you lose
motivation, but it's not too um too
small that you lose motivation as well.
You can lose motivation on both ways.
And so it's the same with crosswords and
video games, they get incrementally more
challenging to keep you engaged. The
size of that first step is is I think a
central point there because when people
listen to podcasts with people like me
and you or Andrew Huberman and they hear
that they've got to maybe get up at this
time, go outside, gaze earth, like put
their feet on the ground, cold plunge,
duh. and I go, I'm going to do that and
I set that as my first step.
Yeah.
I'm set up for failure.
How important do you think the size and
the subjective size of that small that
first step you take to build trust with
yourself is and to start that
discipline? The goal isn't to have the
perfect daily routine tomorrow. The goal
is to still be winning your daily
routine in 50 years time. If you expand
your time horizon sufficiently, you will
realize that very, very tiny steps can
compound. Look at the graph of mine or
your followers on Spotify, especially
mine, right? Because I was doing my show
for so long and it's just nothing,
nothing, nothing, nothing, everything.
Well, why? Well, it's because it's
latent leverage. It takes so many layers
of paint to get there. So, yes, the
first step has to be incredibly small.
Do that. Make it so small that you can't
say no to it. And then what's next? And
then what's next? So when I decided that
I was going to try and become a more
virtuous version of me, I was going to
start telling the truth. I was going to
uh have a morning routine. I was going
to develop a meditation habit. I was
going to read. All of these things I
wanted to do. None of which I did right
toward the end of my 20s. None of which
I did. All of which are now the
foundation of of my life. Over I don't
know 1500 meditation sessions and all of
the authors on the podcast, etc., etc.
[snorts]
I had to do that one step at a time. I
didn't have a stable sleep and wake
pattern until co ever in my adult life.
I'd never gone to bed and woken up at
the same time for seven days in a row
until COVID because I was running
nightlife events, right? So
if no matter how difficult the setback
is, even if you're a shift worker,
you're a nurse, you're a parent,
whatever your challenge is, just make
the promise to yourself sufficiently
small that even with that challenge in
front of you, you can make it work.
I hear that and I'm motivated as a lot
of people will be because that's what
happens. You know, like a shower, as the
cliche goes, motivation comes and then
it slowly it slowly washes over us and
slowly starts to fade. How do I prepare
or how should I be preparing for the day
where I've heard Chris Williams and
Steve speaking about this and then in
three and a half days time I wake up in
the morning, life has happened, the kids
screaming, my motivation seems to have
escaped me.
Mhm.
The distinction between discipline on
that day and the motivation I got from
the source and that came from the
inspiration of this conversation. What
do I do?
Discipline eats motivation for
breakfast. You don't need motivation.
It's great if it arrives. It's some
extra fuel on the fire. But discipline
is the thing that you need. What would
you tomorrow want you today to do? You
tomorrow would want you to keep that
promise to yourself. And it's why
discipline is so much more valuable. I
remember this conversation between
Jocker Willink and Sam Harris six years
ago. They're talking about how you can't
fake bravery because if you do a thing
in spite of being scared of doing the
thing, that is bravery, right? There's
no such thing as fake bravery. Like you
just if you do the thing and you're
scared, that's bravery. If you don't do
the thing and you weren't scared, that's
not bravery, right? The same thing goes
for discipline. Doing the thing in spite
of not wanting to do the thing is
discipline, right? You don't need
motivation to get yourself up to go and
do a thing. Make the promise small.
Build it up step by step. Know that you
are going to have setbacks. And this is
my favorite rule from James Clear, which
is a habit missed once is a mistake. A
habit missed twice is the start of a new
habit. Never miss two days in a row. So
ideally, go for a month, build it up.
But after that, if you ever miss one
day, go, okay, that's mistakes are going
to happen. Tomorrow I double down.
Tomorrow I go on time, absolutely
perfect. I'm straight up out of bed or I
go to the gym or I walk the dog or I do
my meditation or whatever. And that's a
good heruristic stops errors snowballing
into new habits.
What about if I get to day three? It's
then, in James CLA's definition, the
start of a new habit. Do I not just
apply the same thinking that I did when
I missed it on day one?
You just need to Well, I mean, if you
don't ever miss two days, you shouldn't
be able to get to day three.
What if I do though? I mean, I think
about my own fitness journey. I've been
working out for the last 3 years. M
and there will be a week where
motivation is gone and there'll be
multiple weeks. So there'll be sometimes
there'll be two weeks in a row where I'm
like taking my ass to the gym,
but the my workout is absolutely
atrocious. I might as well have not have
gone.
Um and I do that because I'm trying to
continue the behavior in spite of the
motivation.
Well, it doesn't change your worth as a
person. You know, you you want to do
this because you think that it's good
for you. Because you believe that it's
good for you. Because you care about
yourself. You care about Steven and his
body and his mind. you want him to have
a long and healthy life. And the same
for everybody else that's listening.
They want to have good outcomes from the
things that they do in life. You don't
need to lambast yourself because you
don't do a thing that is perfectly
designed to make you feel good. Okay.
Like you missed three days in a row. We
get back on the horse. We go again.
Discipline.
You talked a second ago about the
fundamentals of your life now. The
things you wanted to put in place. You
referenced meditation and these kinds of
things. When I think about the the Chris
Williams that was running those club
nights was on Love Island, take me out
and the guy that sat in front of me now.
If there were a couple of key
fundamental tools or devices that have
taken you from there to the guy sat in
front of me here
and you know what are what are those
what are those things? And I say this
because you know when people give advice
on this podcast sometimes when in books
and stuff they'll talk to things they
think they're supposed to say
but you never really get the truth
stuff. They'll say oh meditation I've
never heard that before. I'm like for
Chris Williams, what what took you from
from there to the Chris Williams in
Sanford to be now?
Getting up on time every day.
Every day.
And what's what's on time for you?
Uh 7 7 to 7:30 depending on what time I
went to bed. So it'll change each night,
but I'll set an alarm and I will get up
on time. Go to bed and wake up at around
about the same time each day. Makes a
massive difference. Go for a morning
walk first thing. So sunlight before
screen light was something that I was
doing before Huberman talked about the
down reggulation of the amygdala
response and the lateral eye movement
helps blah blah blah in the brain. I
came upon this because I wanted to go
for a walk more in order to get as many
steps in as I could. Uh get up and go
for a walk because it just so many
people are
stopped the second they wake up because
they use their phone as their alarm.
They roll over, they hit the alarm on
their phone, and now their phone's in
their hand. And now they're in bed for
half an hour doing the cycle through all
of their social media apps. Sleep with
your phone outside of your bedroom. That
was the number one change that I made.
Phone is outside of the bedroom. And I
bought How long have radio alarms been
around? A million years, right? Like
just get any kind of alarm clock. Wake
up, go for a walk before you use your
phone. that will change so many of the
problems that people encounter because
it the addiction to technology is
primary I think to a lot of people's
challenges in their day.
Meditation has been interesting for me.
It it it's definitely helped me to be
calmer to be more peaceful. It's not an
insane performance enhancer. The breath
work as well. I really enjoy doing that.
It's not an insane performance enhancer.
um reading I would say some form of
content absorption that could come from
reading articles, reading books,
listening to podcasts, listening to
audio books. Something that pushes your
understanding is is very important. Uh
and for me that's moved. It was books a
while ago. Now it's more Substack
articles that I read on my Kindle. For a
long time it's always been podcasts.
Sometimes it's audio books, sometimes
it's not.
What about content creation? the other
side of that coin and the obligation to
create.
What impact has that had on your life?
It's everything because
by having to
talk about the things that I learn, it
forces me to learn them, right? Until
you can explain something to somebody
else, you don't really understand it.
So, okay, prove to me that you
understand it by telling me about it. I
can't. Okay, well, you don't understand
it then. So, uh, this is one of the
reasons I suggest to people that they
should do a fake podcast with a friend,
uh, for 30 minutes every week. Uh,
phones are outside of the room. Put one
phone face down on the table, press the
record button, and just have a
conversation and pretend that people are
watching. Welcome back to the show,
Stephen. Today, we're going to talk
about the UFC or Tommy Fury and Jake
Paul. Who do you think is going to win?
And it forces you to be rigorous and
precise and consistent with the things
that you believe. And it is a forcing
function that synthesizes the things
that you're doing. Other people might
prefer to write or draw. One of the
advantages of doing it for an audience
is that you actually feel like someone's
keeping you accountable, right? If it's
just, oh, I'm going to draw a drawing
every week for my own pleasure as
opposed to I'm going to draw a drawing
every week and post it on my Instagram
or I'm going to write a Substack
article. I mean, I have a posting
cadence on the show Monday, Thursday,
Saturday. Uh, and if it wasn't for the
fact that I know if I don't post on
those days, the audience is going to be
like, "Hang on a second, mate. Like,
it's Monday. Where's the where's the
podcast episode?" it would be a lot less
motivating for me to do it driven by
that. So, I think that absolutely
creating some kind of content, whether
it be just for you or whether it be to
put out into the world and to build a
platform with, is a a good start.
The most important thing I think in
hindsight that I've gained from content
creation is in fact like honing my skill
of sales because you're forced in this
medium to make your ideas as concise as
you possibly can and say them in a way
which is engaging. And I reflect over
the last 10 years or so of making
content and recording videos and go,
man, the impact it's had on my business,
my ability to pitch and sell. But even
if you're a guy and you're looking to
pick someone up in a bar, man or woman,
it's profound to me the impact that the
obligation to create content,
specifically on video in in um
in speaking form, has had on all facets
of my life. And I just don't feel like
there's enough of a charge to both
introspect but then the obligation to
create. I think it's life-changing.
There's a a interesting quote from
Vickinstein, Ludvid Vickinstein, and he
says, "The limits of my language mean
the limits of my world."
So you could see a richer vocabulary
means a richer life. If you take the
fact that you have ideas in your head,
they're these sort of wishy-washy
ephemeral notion. It's like a smell,
right? An idea is kind of like a smell.
It's it's just amorphous blob of a thing
and you go yeah I feel like this I feel
like this is an idea until you make it
take form through spoken word written
word or drawing
it doesn't really exist. It's not
tangible. You can't see it. You can't
work out where the holes are in whatever
this idea is. So what that means is that
first off the more words that you have
in your arsenal the more precisely you
can describe the thing which is in your
head. The more frictionlessly you can
take ideas from your brain to your
mouth, your fingertips, or the end of a
pencil, the more accurately you're going
to be able to put that out into the
world, which means that when you need to
turn it over and assess it and look at
it, you go, "Oh my god, I thought that I
knew this inside out, and there's this
big gaping hole here. I need to work out
what's going on." which is why a
loneliness epidemic, uh, the massive
falling rates of friendlessness in in
the world aren't particularly good
because not only is it bad for the
community and for social cohesion, but
it's bad for the individual's personal
growth as well. If you want to fully
learn something, you want to spend time
synthesizing your ideas.
And you can really only ever do that for
somebody else. Again, you can write the
journal to you, for you, but it's never
going to be as disciplined or as
consistent as if you're writing it for
an audience, even if the audience is
only five people or only your friends.
And you spoke to something which is
because you were outside of the social
circle when you were young, you were
able to, I guess, vicariously see the
impact that small things had, which made
you kind of socially attuned. Talking
then about the loneliness epidemic.
Is it an is it an epidemic? How bad is
it? Is it something that you believe
society should be paying more attention
to? Um I sat here with Simon Synynic the
other day and he disclosed to me that he
was going through a real struggle with
loneliness at the moment and it was
somewhat surprising. It was somewhat
surprising because again in a very naive
way Simon Synynic is someone of great
success. He's got a career most people
would um would die for. He's a man of
you know that's greatly admired. He goes
on stages and thousands of people roar
his name, but then on a personal level,
he's lonely. And one of the things he
said to me was there's a real difference
between being alone and being lonely.
Do you can you see the distinction
between the two?
Yeah. I mean, solitude is something that
many of us enjoy. I know that me and you
both enjoy, right? Loneliness isn't. I
used to write I I've got um in a journal
that I used to keep in my phone a couple
of different entries from my mid20s and
it just put I think I'm lonely. Yeah.
Because I just I I I couldn't work out
what was going on. I had a sense that
there was maybe something that was a
little bit wrong. I think I'm lonely. Um
when it comes to the loneliness
epidemic,
uh in 1990, the number of men who said
that they had six or more close friends
was around about 55%. In 2020, that
dropped to 21%. It's less than half,
right? 21% of men say that they have
less than six close friends. The number
of men who say that they have zero close
friends has increased by fivefold from
1990 and it's now at 15%.
15% of men say that they have zero close
friends. I don't know the stats for
women. It seems like women are able to
hold on to social groups a little bit
more effectively than men are. Uh the
loneliness epidemic does seem to be
hitting men a little bit more hard.
I'm compelled by your diary entry before
we get into the stats and the causation.
You wrote in your diary in your
mid20ies, I think I'm lonely.
Yep. It's funny because I I reflect on
my early 20s between 20 and 25 and I was
definitely lonely but had no idea until
later.
That was why I only that was why I only
thought that I was lonely, you know?
[clears throat] I was like and what is
it? What were we just saying?
It's a notion.
It's a It's a smell. Someone shouted it
from the other room. [__]
I
What is that? I think I'm lonely.
No one's described it. I didn't have a
description of it. So, I had this sort
of innate fe this feeling inside my
being, but no one had put a word to it
before or told me what the like job
description of someone that's lonely
looks like.
So, it was a signal like something's not
right, but I don't know what it is.
Yep.
And I only learned when I was not
lonely, when I felt a real sense of
connection
what I was missing.
Oh [__] That's not what life's supposed
to be like.
Yeah. So, tell me about what what had
caused what factors had come together to
put you in a situation where you were
lonely. I've met about a million people
in my life and I only had a handful of
friends.
That made me think my exposure to friend
conversion seems to be off. There is
something not right here. And this was
largely due to the fact that I was
playing a role as this big name on
campus party boy. And quite rightly, who
was I going to resonate with when I
wasn't being me? they were going to at
best become friends with a projection of
what I thought they wanted me to be.
Right? So this was almost exclusively on
myself. Uh but also I was struggling a
little bit in the industry to find um
the I I can't have a conversation about
like the deeper sense of human nature or
the existential pain of being alive or
status from Will store his brand new
book when someone's desperately trying
to get a VIP wristband off me so that
they can go and see the hot girls
downstairs. like it's it's not quite the
right environment for that. But again,
largely this was due to the fact that I
wasn't being sufficiently confident that
other people would be interested in what
I was interested in. And yeah, I mean,
you can be have all of the success in
the world. You can be uh surrounded by
people and yet feel alone in a crowd and
hollow in victory. Because if you're
only playing a role, anything that you
do, any love that people give to you
won't feel like it hits you
existentially. You'll feel praise, but
you won't feel love because they're not
in love with you. They're just
applauding the role that you're playing.
Does that make sense?
Makes perfect sense. Makes perfect
sense. It's such an apt description. It
really brings in this idea of what the
person is connecting to matters the
most. I if they're connecting to the
image that I've created which is
inauthentic to myself, I'm never going
to receive that connection. The only way
to cure my loneliness is to show up as
myself and to build connection on that
basis which is again makes a ton of
sense to me because I was a young CEO
who had hundreds of employees.
My relationship to them wasn't
necessarily Steve the true sense of
Steve
to them. So
Steve to CEO
it was exactly it was CEO to employee.
And then in my personal life in that
early 20s phase there was maybe one
person maybe two that knew Ste that were
connected to Steve. Yep.
But even maybe one actually um which is
super interesting because we don't it
also talks to Simon Synynic's thing
where I go well he's this guy's amazing
but but how many people are connected to
the true Simon the guy behind the books
the guy behind the admiration. That
study you referenced a second ago about
men getting increasingly lonelier. I I
think I read the same thing. The thing I
read was about the amount of people
we have to turn to in a time of crisis
and how that's decayed over the last
couple of decades.
Why is that happening? What is happening
in culture and society that's causing us
to become more and more disconnected in
terms of proximity but also in just in
sense of sort of psychological
connection? What is going on?
It's a good question. Uh I don't think
that is a there's a single answer to
this. Um social media probably has a lot
to answer for. What's happened now is
the world of social connection has been
made less and less social, right? You're
more more connected than ever before,
but more atomized than ever before as
well. I think that there are some really
worrying trends in rising rates of
social anxiety that are mostly
downstream from people not spending
enough time being social. If you look at
the average amount of hours that kids
would have played outside versus the
average amount of hours that kids are
spending watching television on social
media and playing video games now you
are basically creating an army of young
Chrises right that were socially
uneducated in that regard downstream
those turn into adults that similarly
don't they haven't got the habits of
going out and being social which means
that they don't develop the skills to
connect to people to be able to make
friends and that causes loneliness. Like
that's I think a large portion of what
we're talking about.
What about the like optimization of our
lives and the way that we've built
cities and the way that we're you know
when I say optimization of our lives I
mean like if we order food
convenience
it's a it's a screen.
I mean this this is just
if we date it's a screen. If we connect
to my mother or my sister in Australia
it's a screen.
Yeah.
Well the problem is that what is
convenient or enjoyable is not always
what's good for you. Right. Ice cream
for dinner every single night for the
two-year-old is both convenient and
enjoyable, but probably not good for it.
The issue is that we are all our own
parents when it comes to our social
media and uh social interaction lives.
The pain of rejection, whether that be
from a potential friend, a potential
partner or a job offer, a business,
whatever, is is painful. And we have
done incredible things to try and nerf
the world, right? To wrap it in cotton
wool so that the pain of rejection is
removed as much as possible. This is why
online dating is so successful because
the pain of rejection, you don't know
the people that swiped left on you. You
only know the people that swiped right.
That's taken the pain of rejection of
dating away, right?
What do you think of dating apps? Do you
think they're net positive or net
negative for the world?
I really want to go here.
Of course, I want to go.
Okay. [laughter] Okay.
I think that dating apps are a perfect
example of something which is both
convenient and enjoyable, but not good
for you.
They have certainly opened up more
opportunities for people to meet
potential partners. And yet we are in a
world with the highest rates of
sexlessness ever amongst young people.
One in three men between the ages of 18
and 30 hasn't had sex in the last year.
That tripled from 8% to 28% from 2008 to
2018.
50% of men say that they are not looking
for a committed relationship. That's
down from 61% of men saying that they
were. only half of men between the ages
of 18 and 30 are looking for a
relationship. You go, "Okay, well, if
the promises of easy access online
dating were so true, how is it that
we've ended up with a world where people
having less sex than ever, that sex uh
sexlessness has also increased for women
too, but for men it's increased more and
they were starting at a higher baseline
as well.
50.1% of women for the first time in
history uh are
mothers there are more childless women
at 30 than there are women with
children. Right? So for almost all of
human history more women had kids under
the age of 30 than over. And now it's
switched. There's a study from Morgan
Stanley that says by 2040 45% of 25 to
45 year old women will be single and
childless.
If online dating was creating this
perfect facilitation for relationships
to start, how are we ending up with all
of these
outcomes?
It's a question.
What's wrong with the outcomes?
What do you mean? Why should people care
about being single?
All the stats you've just said,
um, I could look at them and say they're
just sort of objectively neutral. like
there's no adverse consequence to
society or the world. It's fine that
people aren't having kids. It's fine
that people are aren't having sex. I'm
playing devil's advocate here, but like
what what is the what is the negative
consequence of all of those outcomes
that you've described in your view?
There are people for whom a life without
a partner is the right choice. That's
absolutely something that I'm prepared
to accept. But it's not most people.
It's
one of the biggest levers. In fact, the
single biggest predictor of your health
outcomes in life are the number of close
connections that you have. It's the
number of friends. It's more than
quitting smoking. It's more than going
to the gym. It's more than stopping
drinking. It's the number of close
friends that you've got. And a
relationship is a big close friend.
Robin Dunar says that in order to get
into a relationship, you have to
sacrifice two friendships
because you can have around about five
very close friends. If you want to get
into a relationship, you need to get rid
of two of them because there is a
minimum time investment. So, people that
are in relationships have better health
outcomes. They have onset of dementia
later. They have Alzheimer uh problems
later on in life. Uh they are less
lonely.
That seems pretty uncontroversial. And
yet both sides of the aisle, both men
and women are retreating from
relationships and finding ways that they
can uh justify this. Uh you know, uh
boss [__] culture and sort of the
lean-in um women's mentality or men
going their own way and incel culture
and the black pill for guys are both
ways that each sex is trying to deal
with the challenges that are coming out
of the mating market. Both sexes are
saying, "I don't want to be a part of
this anymore. I'm finding it so painful
and difficult to be in this world that
I'm just going to cast off any of it
altogether and then retroactively come
up with a lot of explanations that can
justify why they didn't need to be in a
relationship in any case. And for some
people that's true, but for most people
that's not.
Dating apps are clearly not, you know,
as you say in your own words and
previously aren't the only causal
factor. So my question to you is where
did we go wrong and how do we go right?
Okay. So I think challenges in the
mating market are coming from many
directions. One of the main ones that
will be pertinent to the people that are
listening is the increase in female
achievement in education and employment.
Now about 50 years ago when Title 9 came
in, there was a 13 percentage point
swing in favor of men to women in
universities. There were significantly
more men than women.
What's Title 9?
It was an affirmative action uh policy
that helped to get more women into
higher education.
50 years later, 2023, it's a 15
percentage point swing between men and
women in university in the other
direction. There are two women for every
one man at a four-year US college
degree. Round about by 2030. Women on
average between the ages of 21 and 29
earn £1,111
more than their male counterparts. Women
are roughly twice as likely as men to
say that they will value financial
prospects in a partner. Around about 78%
of women say that a stable job is
something that is important for a
partner to have. Whereas around about
only sort of 45% of men say the same
thing. For a man to increase his uh
rating on a 10-point scale by two
points, he requires around about a
t-fold uh increase in his salary. For a
woman to achieve the same twopoint
improvement on a 10point scale, her
salary would need to increase by 10,000
times.
My point being that women are
they
are concerned about a partner's
socioeconomic status significantly more
than men are. Now you can start to see
that if you have a world in which women
are attending university at high rates.
They are achieving uh more success in
employment at least in that sort of 21
to 29 range which is when most people
are perhaps looking for potential
partners. And yet the socioeconomic
status of a partner to a woman is a big
determinant of their level of
attraction. You can start to see how
this imbalance could cause a problem.
Similarly, when we talk about education,
a man with a master's degree on Tinder
gets 90% more right swipes than a man
with a bachelor's degree. So for all of
the guys that are considering going and
getting a master's degree, even if you
think it's going to be useless, at least
accept the fact that you'll get 90% more
right swipes for the rest of your life
or just lie about your masters. I don't
know. All of this rolled together
describes something called hypergamy,
which is the female tendency to date up
and across. On average, women want to
date a man who is as educated or as
employed as they are. Now, in a world in
which quite rightly women have finally
been able to achieve parity in education
and employment and status and have
independence and not be financially
reliant on their partner, all the rest
of it, that's great for them, but it it
does cause some challenges for their
dating. And this is what I've called the
tall girl problem. So everybody knows
what it's like to have a girl friend who
is six foot without heels. You go, if
you want to wear heels, you're looking
at professional athletes because on
average, women want to date a man who is
at least as tall or a little bit taller
than they are. So as women rise up
through their own competence hierarchy
in education and employment, they
further shorten down the potential pool
of eligible men that are as educated or
more educated and as employed or more
employed than they are. This is a
challenge. This is just a straight up
imbalance, right? What this causes is a
very large group of men toward the
bottom of this distribution to be
essentially invisible to women. It
causes a very large number of women an
increasing cohort to compete for an
increasingly small group of turbochad
super performers at the top. These guys,
the super high value guys have a wealth
of options. So they are commitment
averse. Why would they decide to sit
down with one girl for the rest of time
when they have this wealth of options
which can cause them to uh use and
discard many of these women which then
causes most of these women to resent men
overall. And then the guys that were
forgotten at the bottom that say, "Well,
hang on a second. I didn't use and
discard you. I haven't even been seen by
you. No, no, all men are whatever it
might be, right? That they are users and
abusers that we don't need them. That
where all of the good men at, etc., etc.
There's a big group of men that feel
like they are good men that are
invisible. There's a big portion of
women who have finally managed to
achieve educational and employment
independence that are chasing after a
smaller group of guys. These guys are
commitment averse. I don't think it's
necessarily good for them either. It's
the child with the ice cream, right?
Like guys being able to keep it in their
pants when there's a lot of options on
the table is going to be difficult for
them too. This is one of the main
drivers. This
uh tall girl problem is a massive change
I think in uh the dating dynamics.
It obviously begs a question, Chris,
which is
if everything you've said is objectively
correct and spot on and supported by the
data, then how does if I make Chris
Williamson the prime minister or
president of the world and I say your
first job is to fix this challenge.
What do you do? The first thing that you
don't do is roll back women's education
and employment. And this is one of the
problems with this discussion, right?
The things that I've just said there are
borne out in pure research data, Morgan
Stanley results. Like these are
incontrovertible facts, right? They are
there. And any girl that is listening
who earns more than £50,000 a year and
has got a masters or above level
education and is toward their late 30s
or in their toward their late 20s or in
their 30s knows this problem. You know
the fact that you are struggling to find
a man that you feel is eligible for you,
right?
That needs to be out there.
The problem that happens around this
discourse is that it posits men and
women as adversaries and competitors of
each other, right? As enemies.
This means that worthwhile
compassion which is needed to both women
and men. If you're a woman who has gone
through your education, you've dedicated
yourself to achieving a degree, you
know, your mother's generation wasn't
able to achieve this, and you're the
first person that's maybe gone to uni or
got a bachelor's or got a masters or got
a PhD, and then you spend some time in a
career grinding away, and you now earn
150 grand a year. You think, right, I'm
31. I'd love to settle down. This would
be amazing for me. Where are all of the
men at? I hang on a second. And what you
realize is that not only now are you
competing with all of the other
increasing cohort of women that are high
achievers with status, employment, and
education, but you're also competing
with a 21-year-old barista who still
lives at home with her parents for this
small cohort of guys.
That requires sympathy for women. Okay,
that is not a good position for women to
be in. At the same time, this huge
cohort of sexless men, 30% of men
haven't had sex in the last year. 50% of
men say that they are not looking for a
relationship. You are a man. You have
been through your 20s. You know the
power of the male sex drive between the
ages of 18 and 30. Can you imagine
getting yourself into a situation where
you say, "I'm not bothered about
pursuing women." That is an unbelievably
extreme statement for men to make. And
they're self-identifying as this in pure
research data. This isn't on incel
forums. This is pure research. 50% of
men aren't looking for a relationship.
When they say aren't looking for a
relationship, do they mean I'm not
looking for a woman or I'm not looking
for commitment?
Not actively pursuing any kind of
interaction with women.
Oh [__]
Casual included.
What?
50%.
Here's the point, right? You asked about
solutions. The first thing that we need
to do is turn down the volume of
adversarial uh nature between these two.
Anybody that listens to those two
stories, right, the plight of men and
the plight of women in the modern dating
world and doesn't see it as, wow, that's
[__] That that really really sucks
for both sexes.
Men have it worse in some ways. Women
have it worse in different ways. Right?
This isn't a competition of like, oh,
let's wave the flag of who's actually
accumulated more victimhood points.
The first thing that needs to happen
before anything is the volume of the
conversation needs to be turned down. We
need to see the challenges that are
faced by both sexes. The second thing
that needs to be put out front is that
there needs to be a way to raise men up
without bringing women down because it
is very easy for you to say, "Okay, so
women are out achieving men in education
and employment. Let's just put the
reinss on them and then everything's
going to be brought back." go. Look, I
am not trying to roll back any of the
gains that have been made by women over
the last 50 years,
but you do want to have eligible male
partners, right? If the thermodynamics
of attraction include the fact that
women tend to want to date across and up
in terms of status, employment, and
education, you need to do something,
right?
[snorts]
Some of the things that you could look
at doing in terms of solutions would be
uh
red shirting boys. So starting boys in
school one year later. This is something
that was put forward by Richard Reeves.
The reason for this is that boys tend to
mature less quickly than girls. If you
were to start boys one year later in
school, it would mean that they would be
more effective at their age. They would
be more mature mentally. Uh that's one
start. Another one that I think is
probably more controversial but would
make a big impact would be to stop
dergating motherhood, right? To start
pedestalizing motherhood again. There is
a huge movement in
certain corners of women's advice that
any woman who decides to become a mother
is a second essentially a secondass
citizen. I don't think that that's true.
I don't think that a woman that chooses
to become a mother is a secondass
citizen. But women often
fear becoming just a mother, right? Or
just a wife or at worst a domestic
prostitute. And they flee from this
spectre of family life into the open
arms of a corporate employer. And
laughably, we call this process freedom.
How can it be that
the thing
that most of us
are are grateful for, a great mother in
our life, has now been deriggated as
some sort of
uh
it's it's like somebody's been rubed
into a role that the patriarchy always
wanted them to do, right? There was an
article a little while ago uh that said
maternal instinct is a myth.
That basically uh the only reason that
maternal instinct exists is because the
patriarchy has convinced women that
they're actually supposed to like kids.
It's like
I I can't even begin to explain how
ridiculous that is. If you look at all
of the sex differences in terms of the
way that humans work,
pedestalizing motherhood would make
women
fear being a mother less. it would make
it an aspirational goal for them to to
pursue.
One of the scariest stats that I learned
was from a guy called Steven Shaw. He
wrote a did a documentary called Birth
Gap and in it he talks about this
declining birth rate. [snorts]
A meta analysis by Professor Rinska
Kaiser says that 80% of women who aren't
mothers after their fertility window
closes didn't intend to not be mothers.
Involuntary childlessness. Around about
10% of women are physiologically
incapable of having kids. Very
unfortunate. Around about 10% of women
intended to not have children, which
leaves a whopping four out of five
nonmother
women who didn't intend to not be
mothers. And these women have support
groups where they come together to
grieve for families that they never had.
And it breaks their hearts that they
weren't able to find the right partner
in time before their fertility window
closed.
And Professor Kaiser talks about the
pain that these women feel. And Steven
Shaw has been to these support groups
that women who thought that they had
more time that struggled to find a
partner in time, they grieve for
families that they never had. And that
that sentence just it makes me it makes
me feel so upset. Like it's so painful
to hear the prospect of a woman that
that wanted to have a family and
couldn't. It's very difficult.
So there's there's two solutions there
that you've kind of offered up as
potential solutions to that. Um
does that alone fix the other side of
the coin which is the the huge quantity
of men that are avoiding relationships,
intimacy, women altogether?
Not particularly. Um raising men up
somehow would be great but I mean where
we begin with that I don't know. I think
men are heavily checked out of education
uh and employment. uh men have been
retreating from the US labor force
market by 0.1% per year since 1950. It's
87% in 1950. It's about 67% now. By 2050
or 2040 or 2050 it'll be 65%.
Given that women want on average about
80% of women want a man with a stable
job, this retreat is not good. Each step
that men take where they take themselves
out of education and employment not only
isolates them and makes them
economically uh less viable as
contributors to society, it also makes
them less eligible as mates. On average,
men between 18 and 30 in the US spend
2,000 hours per year playing video
games, stoned, or on prescription drugs.
that's not the eligible partner, right?
So, one other thing that you could look
at doing is
re encouraging in-person dating. So,
online dating does worsen this issue
because it allows you to optimize for
object objective metrics of success,
right? On uh a dating app, and this is
for both men and women, on a dating app,
particularly for men, you can have your
education level, you can have the car
that you're with, you can talk about
your job, you can So women are very much
encouraged by the platform itself to
take a a incredibly lowresolution view
of this person. So all of the things
that guys are able to work on like you
know vibe and humor,
being pleasant, being kind, being
caring, being charming, none of that can
come across on a Tinder profile. And
this means that it further worsens the
tall girl problem. You see how it would
it would make the objective metrics even
more and more worsened. Let's not forget
that there are three men for every one
woman on a dating app. So even if every
man matched off with a woman, there
would still be this huge number of men
that didn't have a partner,
right?
So online dating hasn't delivered on the
promises I think that anybody wanted for
it. Women swipe right on around about
4.5% of profiles for men. Men swipe
right on about 60% of profiles for
women. This means that a lot of men see
online dating as
a waste of time. We spoke about how it
buffers rejection and that it helps
people to not feel rejection so much.
But when you spend a lot of time on apps
swiping right on 60% of people on
average and you don't get very many
matches or any matches or the few
matches you do get never turn into
dates,
that would quite rightly make people
feel disenchanted with the world of
dating. Downstream from the problems of
social media that we spoke about before
are a lack of ability to flirt. I
actually think that flirting is a lost
art at the moment. You know, it's a very
complex thing to do. It's a push and
pull. You You have to understand a lot
of intricacies about sort of social
dynamics and interaction. You need to be
able to tease, but not too much. And the
art of flirting is incredibly difficult
to get right. And it's even more
difficult if you've never interacted
with a woman in the real world,
especially as guys and girls. Now, let's
touch another third rail, Stephen. Me
too. So,
me too was a uh necessary requirement to
call powerful men to account for
misbehaving and using their power to
gain sexual access to women.
What it sought to do was to sanitize the
toxic elements of certain males
behavior. What it's ended up doing is it
sterilized almost all of it.
84% 80% of men report not approaching a
woman because they are scared of being
seen as creepy.
84% of women say that they want the man
to make the first move.
Women are terrified of being approached
by men because of stories of sexual
assault, of dangers within the
workplace, of overreach by men that are
both in power and out of power. Men are
terrified of approaching women for fear
of being accused of all of those things.
So, we have a epidemic of loneliness and
sexlessness amongst the sexes. For the
first time in our 4 million-year
history,
we have large cohorts of both men and
women who want relationships and can't
get into them.
Men feel invisible on dating apps and
are terrified of approaching women in
the real world. Women yearn for men who
they want to be in a relationship with
but either are not spoken to by or are
used and abused by in person. Both of
them are terrified of talking to each
other in any case for fear of either
being accused of or becoming the victim
of some sort of terrible interaction.
I think that
re-enabling
in-person dating would make a massive
difference. It would reduce down the
tall girl problem because you would have
the ability for guys to uh gain status
in the eyes of for instance a guy that
maybe not doesn't have a university
degree but is unbelievably funny. It's
still very statusful, right? Because
humor and genders a sense of status.
It's called clown maxing in the the
black pill world. Um,
but that guy might not get a chance if
he was just on online dating. So, that
would be another thing. Uh, and and you
can see as well how the incredibly uh
righteous
ideas of me too when taken to an extreme
could end up causing some externalities
that
disadvantage women in the dating market.
Do you see what I mean? Of course. I as
you were saying that, I was thinking
about that video that went viral of the
uh young girl in the gym who was filming
the guy that came over to ask her if she
needed help with the weights.
Do you do you know the video I'm talking
about? I do.
So, for anybody that doesn't have the
context, um a young lady on TikTok um
set up her camera while she was in the
gym and she was filming a guy and sort
of anticipating him coming over to help.
And lo and behold, the guy walks over
and says, "Do you want a hand with the
weight?" and tries to give her a hand
with the weight. And then as he walks
off, she like she cusses him out and
says he's a basically portrays him as
this like
predator/mon monster.
And the reaction online was the inverse.
The reaction online was like was siding
with the man cuz he just came over and
asked her if she wanted a hand. Of
course, we both know that there are very
predatory men in gyms,
right?
I've I've got female friends that have
spoken to that. My girlfriend speaks to
that all the time. She tells me how of
her experiences in the gym. But there is
another side to highlighting this issue
which causes perfectly reasonable,
polite men who are genuinely offering a
hand in something or
let's be honest, flirting.
Yeah.
To be totally [__] terrified.
Absolutely.
And and this is the this is the
difficult conversation that we don't
have a lot which is what's the the net
we can see the net positive of that. We
can see the positive side of that but
what is the downside? Everything in life
has a cost. is that now that we are
scared to broker conversations with
strangers through fear of being put on
blast on TikTok.
If you optimize for absolute safety,
what you're going to end up with is
nobody ever approaching a girl in the
gym. Now, I don't know, maybe maybe
there are girls that say, "Do you know
what it is? It is worth it for no girl
to ever be flirted with in the gym, for
no girl to ever be made to feel like
they are being uh stared at in the gym."
You know, like if the price that we have
to pay is that no one ever gets a date,
a gym date, then that's fine because the
benefit that we get is that no one ever
is made to feel uncomfortable, right? A
few things discern that. First off,
almost all uh
indiscretions from men that are where
they do creepy behavior are a very very
small cohort of men that repeatedly do
it. This is from David Bus's uh men
behaving badly. It is one man doing a
thousand bad things to women, not a
thousand men doing one bad thing to
women. Now, the problem is that that can
still cause a massive that's still a
thousand bad interactions with women,
right? But you have 999 men that are
saying, "Well, I don't behave like that.
I've been smeared with this with this
bad this bad brush." Uh, and this is an
incredibly difficult uh line for both of
us to thread here. How is it that we can
talk about
some of the challenges that women face
in the dating world when there are so
many obvious benefits that have occurred
to their safety as a byproduct of this?
One of the interesting things that I
learned about that uh gym the toxic gym
gaze video was
it could have gone either way when it
went onto Tik Tok, right? It was a knife
edge. If you'd showed me that video and
the comments were hidden and you said,
"What do you think the reaction is going
to be?" Are you going, "Toss a coin.
Toss a coin." And that will be this
guy's either push. In my opinion, I
don't think that he had overstepped, but
I don't understand how the world is
going to react to this. Now, the
[snorts] interesting thing there is that
a lot of people take their cues about
what is and is not acceptable social
behavior from the way that other people
view what is and is not acceptable
social behavior. So those sorts of
landmark episodes
actually end up creating a trend of what
people in the real world will consider
to be acceptable behavior. So let's say
we have a different version of the
universe and in that universe everybody
decided that that actually was too much
from a man. What you have then is all of
[clears throat] the girls that watch
that video seeing it and saying, "Oh my
god, if a guy glances over at me more
than three times in 90 seconds and tries
to help me delo a glute bridge, that
constitutes worthy uh worthy concern
about abuse and toxic male gaze." Right?
So we have now reset expectations down
to a much tighter sensitivity level.
Similarly for men, they think, okay, I
know that three glances in 90 seconds
plus assisting someone to de load the
plates from a bar is too much.
Therefore, at most I can have one glance
during 90 seconds. Do you understand? I
mean, do you see how we we would further
nerf the world? We would wrap it in more
and more and more cotton. Well, and then
downstream from that, you concept creep
this out to the stage where anything is
toxically masculine. Like, let's give
the other side of the coin. men
overstepping the mark and how men can be
better.
Um,
that's what I that's what I I want to
make sure we're balanced in this
conversation because there are, as we
both have spoken to, there are um a huge
amount there is a huge amount of
inappropriate behavior that happens
throughout society, through the
corporate world, through our everyday
lives. How as men do you think we can be
better?
And when I say better, really what I'm
speaking to here is be is know how to
approach a woman in a way that is not
going to make them feel uncomfortable,
intimidated,
um fearful. And that's the the what
women speak to all the time. They talk
about how they have to walk home with
their car keys in their hand because of
they pretend they're on phone calls when
they're walking down the street. These
are all things that, you know, my
sister, my female friends have spoken
to. So,
how as men can we be better?
The first thing I think is to actually
spend some time
sandboxing this like practicing like you
need the only way that you're going to
learn how to how to interact with a
woman is by doing it. It's not the sort
of thing that you're going to be able to
work out on the internet. I mean like
basic stuff like don't stand super close
to her. Don't do it in a dark alleyway
at night.
uh don't stare for ages without saying
anything, right? These are very basic
like rudimentary objective metrics that
we can give. But really what it comes
down to is just have a bit of charm
about you. Understand that if you go up
and say something to a girl, hi, I just
wanted to ask how your day is going. I
just wanted to tell you that you looked
really nice today. If there is a girl
that has a problem with that, presuming
that it's not in a culde-sac alleyway at
the dead of night and you've got your
hood up, right?
Or or you're her employer
or you're her employer. Well, here's
here's another interesting one, right?
Bill and Melinda Gates, right? Melinda
Gates works for Microsoft. Bill is the
founder and CEO. Bill sees Melinda
around the office. This is in the 1980s.
And he thinks, "Wow, yeah, she's she's a
bit of all right." So, he decides to
ring her and say, "Uh, Melinda, it's
Bill. wondered if you wanted to go out
with me one evening and she said, "Uh,
when when are you thinking?" He says,
"How's uh three weeks tomorrow?" She
said, "Uh, Bill, I I don't think that
you're spontaneous enough for me. I
don't think that this is going to work.
Put the phone down." 30 minutes later,
he rings back and says, "How's this for
spontaneous? You've got the rest of the
day off. Let's go on a date." 2023,
founder CEO of large tech company rings
receptionist asking her to date him. And
after she says no, rings back again,
pulls her out of work, and takes her on
a date. Game over, right? Done.
Where is the line in between Bill Gates
and Harvey Weinstein? What Weinstein?
Well, it it's precisely in the details,
right? Everybody can say what Harvey
Weinstein did was wrong. Some people
would say that what Bill Gates did was
wrong. Okay. Is it wrong for two people,
a guy and a girl, who spend every day,
every single time that they go to the
water cooler, one of them sees, the
other one gets up and like escapes from
their chair so that they get the
opportunity to go to the water cooler
together and they've been doing it for 6
months and it's this super platonic
thing, but the guy's terrified and the
girl's terrified. You go, okay, like,
should we nerf every relationship so
that that interaction can never move to
the next level given the fact that we've
got high rates of loneliness, given the
fact that we've got massive amounts of
sexlessness. 20% of relationships begin
on online dating. 20% of relationships
begin in online media, social media,
right? That's two out of five
relationships begin online. And they're
the most fragile. They're the ones that
drop the quickest. They're the ones that
stay together the the least long.
Workplace better. friends even better
church even better than that right but
it is a it is we are in uncharted waters
here people with regards to the mating
world we are in uncharted waters the
Harvey Weinstein example is where I was
like that guy was a [__] monster
well of course
yeah but the Bill Gates one I get it's
kind of like the oldfashioned the
old-fashioned way of doing things you
know when we used to when our world used
to be a village and we would you know
maybe write a letter or we' take the
girl out from the church or whatever but
the Harvey Weinstein this guy was a
[__] monster. Like he was I remember
listening to some of the tapes and the
victims and this guy was a [__]
predator. He was like
I haven't listened to any of those. Are
they harrowing?
It's it's it's it's just it's one of the
most disgusting things I've ever heard
where even like a journalist would come
and interview him and he would just be
like, you know, sexually assaulting and
physically assaulting her during the
interview.
So this guy just had no boundaries.
He is he is just a disgusting watch. Do
you do you see what I mean? That like
quite rightly there needed to be a
reckoning around that. There had to be a
reckoning around that kind of a man
using that kind of a position to get
that kind of access.
Yeah.
That needed sanitizing.
That sort of behavior needed sanitizing
and there was going to be fallout from
it.
Downstream from that, how sanitized
should behavior be up to the point at
which it's been sterilized. And there is
84% of women say that they want the man
to make the first move. Right.
It is still on. I mean, for the girls
that are listening, how many times have
you been the one that's approached a
guy? Like, I've been in nightclubs for
15 years, right? Met about a million
people in there twice. It's ever
happened to me that girls have come up
and been like forthright about chatting
me up twice. And I've worked a thousand
nights in my
That's actually pretty good going.
Yeah. [laughter] Two two out of a
thousand. That's not too bad. And that
could also be my fault, right? Like, but
this is very difficult, man. And again,
for the guys and girls that would say,
well, what does it matter? You know,
what does it matter that we uh that
people are going to be single?
Especially for women, if you're a high
achieving woman who's got the PhD, and I
have a friend, PhD,
millionaire, self-made millionaire in
the fitness world, mid30s, now going
sperm donor route. She's really
struggling to find a partner. So she is
going to use her very vast resources to
be able to support these kids to bring
them into the world to have a fantastic
life. But make no mistake, that's a
single parent household, right? That's a
single parent household. The outcomes
that you have from single parent
households seem to be
socioexually. The daughters
don't do particularly well. you have
higher rates of socioexuality, which is
more casual sex. Uh more comp complexes
around sex from single parent
households, but what we hear about a lot
is that um education and employment
outcomes at single parent households on
average tend to be worse. For women, for
the girls in that situation, doesn't
really seem to impact them all that
much. So, however big you think that
effect is, double it and put it just on
boys.
It's only boys that seem to have that
kind of a problem. And quite rightly,
you're not going to have a patriarch in
the family that's maybe able to deal
with a rambunctious, disagreeable boy. I
I don't think for the women that want to
have kids and you have the resources,
absolutely. But for anyone to say that
that's the optimal approach, that this
is what would be amazing. And again, I'm
not saying women become domestic
prostitutes, take yourself out of the
boardroom, and get yourself back in the
kitchen. Like that's not what either of
us are saying that we want women to do
here. But most people, eight out of 10
women that are childless once they reach
their 40s and later didn't intend to not
be.
This is a very difficult conversation
that we need to have to warn people
about the impact of not thinking ahead
in their relationships.
You have less time than you think.
You need to be aware of that.
If I on the other side of the coin when
we're talking about men again, if I
delete the dating apps, then so you
know, first thing we're doing, we're
deleting more dating apps. That still
leaves us in a world where there's this
kind of pseudo sexual
fake digital relationship in porn.
Oh yeah,
pornography still exists. So I'm
wondering about that 50% of men. I'm
assuming, and I don't know this 50% of
men, but I'm assuming pornography is
probably quite a big part of their
replacement therapy for the connection
and sexual um intimacy that they're
missing.
Correct. So, I have a theory called the
male sedation hypothesis. Right?
There is a uh phenomenon called young
male syndrome. If you have a large
number of non-partnered childless men in
a society, that tends to be an unstable
civilization. Uh there's examples
throughout history where
men who don't have a reason to behave,
who don't buy into the social contract
of cohesing everything together, tend to
cause problems. They
revolt. They cause riots. They spray
paint cars. and they push over granny
and they do domestic violence and sexual
assault. There have been a number of
incel killings of um
disaffected, disenfranchised young men
that have gone out and done horrible
things, but it is not increasing in line
with the amount of sexlessness. Right?
It's tripled 2008 to 2018 tripled 8% to
28%. the number of associated young male
syndrome incidents hasn't increased in
kind. So you think okay something going
on here something is happening which is
causing men to not enact this uh very
wellestablished throughout all of
history uh response
that when men get into a relationship
the testosterone drops. When they have
kids the testosterone drops again and
reduced testosterone reduces risk-taking
behavior. If you've just had a kid or
you're in a relationship, don't try and
jump off that cliff because then maybe
you've got a kid that doesn't have a
father anymore. You can see why that
would be adaptive.
So the question is why is it that we
have greater rates of sexlessness
amongst young men than ever, but we
don't have this inind amount of violence
and disruption. And it's [snorts] my
belief that porn, video games, and
social media are sedating men out of
this uh status seeking and reproductive
seeking behavior. So I think that you
get a titrated dose, just an ever so
slight, just a little little bit of uh
reproductive cues from porn that helps
to sedate men's desire to go out and
pursue women.
I think that what video games do is they
create a sense of camaraderie of goal
seeking behavior
status
status within the uh online world.
It
satisfies a lot of what men would have
been trying to achieve with that young
male syndrome uh revolution in the past.
So my belief is that we have this male
sedation occurring. Now given the choice
between a society of men who are
dangerous and a society of men who are
sedated
right now the group of sedated men are
ever so marginally better.
But the only reason for that is that
we're at a time of peace. Right? If
there was an alien civilization that
that came down to Earth today, the best
thing that we could do would be to
switch off all porn, turn off all social
media. You want men to be angry. You
want men to be riled up when there is
something that they can direct that
anger at. Right now, there isn't. And if
they did, it would just ferment and it
would cause problems and it would be it
would be bad, right? So yes, the
sedating of this kind of reproductive
seeking behavior in a way has made the
world calmer,
but it's not particularly you wouldn't
say it's optimal, right? This isn't
great,
right?
Oh, no. Absolutely not. I mean, you
know, the the uh advent of the nofap
movement, men who identify as not
masturbating, they selfidentify as not
masturbating, they have nofap streaks.
Uh you heard of this? [laughter] Steve,
you've not heard of Nofap.
No, I hang around in the wrong
online. How have you not heard of Nofap?
How have you, Chris?
Uh, look, I I know about my Nofap.
[laughter] Okay, so
there is a very big community of guys
online that have recanted porn. The same
this is what we were talking about
before, right? For every movement, there
is a counter counterculture. For every
um sex positive, there is someone that
will decide to push it away. For every
uh
woman that struggles to find somebody in
the dating market, there is the boss
[__] culture which is the cope. Then
there is the lean-in which is like the
trad wife thing. There is the guy that
becomes the Chad and has sex with all of
the women. There is the guy that
retreats from that and goes men going
their own way and completely recants it
as well. Right? So you have the push and
pull on both sides.
No fap is a group of men who have uh
self-identified as people that don't
masturbate, right? Uh this is because
they see the impact of porn on their
psychological health, on their physical
health, and they don't like what it does
to them. So, they have formed a
community around this. For men who feel
like they have a problem with porn,
something that gives them a sense of
pride
about being able to defeat what they see
as a vice is a a place that quite
rightly they're going to get. Yes, I
have control over this. Even if I don't
have friends, even if I don't have a
partner, at least I have control over
this. And it gives them, what are we
doing here? It is another goal for men
to chase after, right? It just happens
to be a goal of not touching your penis,
which actually quite a hard uh thing for
a guy not to do.
Speak for yourself, Chris.
Look, Stephen, [laughter] I can see
where your hands are. Um,
but it's there's something I I find
really compelling about. We've talked a
lot about people that are single that
are searching for love, but when you
think about the context of relationship,
we're both in relationships. um and the
role masturbation plays in the reduction
of desire for our partner. Cuz some of
my friends are struggling with something
I've talked about before with sex in
their relationships. I've talked about
my own struggles with sex and
relationships. And one of the things
we've kind of diagnosed is pornography
has a reductive value on the desire we
have for our partners. So, do we
abstain?
It depends, man. I mean, people have
varying degrees of sexual drive.
What's your approach? What's my
approach? Uh, I think that I I I I
certainly feel like the story that you
tell yourself around porn and around
masturbation seems to be the biggest
determinant of how it makes you feel.
And this has been backed up by a bunch
of data from Dr. David Lei, who is a
porn researcher, uh, coming out, I think
he's University of uh, Arizona perhaps
or New Mexico. And the story that you
tell yourself has a massive impact on
how you feel. If you feel like
masturbating
is a uh dirty uh bad uh action that you
shouldn't do, that you should feel
ashamed about. Downstream from that,
you're going to feel ashamed. If you
don't communicate it with your partner,
that is a if you're hiding porn use from
your partner, that is a huge huge red
flag. Personally partner is another
concern, but for you it's a big deal
because you're going to feel that sort
of disgust, self-hatred, shame, guilt
thing come through. But I do think that
if you want to increase the sex drive in
your relationship, just saying, okay, if
we want to do anything sexual, we do it
together.
Try and tell me that that's not going to
increase sex drive in a relationship.
But you know almost all of the sex that
happens happens in relationships. If you
look at how much sex if you took a pie
chart of sex right almost all of it is
in relationships. Very very small amount
of sex is in casual relationships.
As you might know the show is now
sponsored by Airbnb. Absolutely love
Airbnb. Always have. Always been a you
know saved my life on so many occasions.
and my team when we first got in touch
with Airbnb were talking about how most
people don't realize that their place
where they currently live could become
an Airbnb. And I guess the second
question there is how much could your
place be worth? And it turns out you
could be sitting on an Airbnb gold mine
without even knowing it. Some people
Airbnb their entire homes when they're
away. That's what I did in New York.
Whenever I left New York, my place was
on Airbnb and people rented it out
sometimes for a day, sometimes for two
days, sometimes for a week. And it's a
great way to cover some of the bills
while you're away. So whether you're
looking to go on holiday or you just
want some extra cash for bills or you
want to buy something nice for a
Valentine that you love, whatever it
might be, head over to airbnb.co.uk/host
and you can find out how much your
current property where you live can earn
while you're not there. I suspect it
might blow your mind because it
certainly blew mine. There was one point
you said about
motherhood and that kind of open my
opened a doorway in my mind about this
the broader subject of regret in life
and you know where if you look at sort
of a meta analysis of where people at
different ages and different genders are
experiencing the highest levels of
regret where does that fall but no
regret is is something that I've been
thinking about an awful lot and
it makes for
considering regret considering the
things that we regret in life and trying
to reframe it has been one of the most
useful
mental models that I've gained. So
Douglas Murray, British writer,
columnist, spectator, multiple New York
Times bestseller. I was in Manhattan
with him and he was telling me a story
about Christopher Hitchens, the famous
atheist, new atheist guy, one of the
four horsemen of the atheist apocalypse.
And he Douglas earlier in his career was
uh lamenting to Hitch about the fact
that he had to choose a thing and by
choosing a thing he couldn't do a
different thing. So he had this
opportunity cost and he's saying all of
these problems I I don't know whether I
want to do this thing, I want to do that
thing and you can imagine they're
probably in some British pub somewhere
in Westminster or whatever and Hitch is
probably smoking.
[sighs and gasps]
He goes, "Douglas, in life we must
choose our regrets."
And he told me the story and I thought,
"That's really interesting. What do you
mean choose our regrets?"
And I reflected on it so much and it
made me think, well, what I'd always
presumed was that in life, the only
reason that I had a regret is because I
made a sub-optimal decision. If only I'd
been able to make the perfect decision,
I could have ameliated the regret. And
the reason that it's there is because I
didn't make the right decision. But when
you accept the fact that opportunity
cost is baked into the fabric of life,
uh me and you can go to the gym or we
can go to the theme park. By going to
the gym, we don't go to the theme park.
Even if the gym was the right decision
to make, we're always going to have the
open loop of I wonder what the theme
park was like that day. So I go, "Oh,
that's interesting." Regrets aren't a
bug. They're a feature. Regrets are a
feature of life, right? They are a
natural byproduct of us always being
curious about what could have been. And
given the fact that opportunity cost
exists, they're always going to be
there. So, okay, that's interesting.
It's kind of liberating, right? Makes
you feel less culpable for the
sub-optimal decision that you made.
So, but what does it mean that you have
to choose your regrets? What's that?
What's the choose bit? Well,
if you accept the fact that regrets are
inevitable, that you're going to do
things in your life, even if you choose
the right thing, and you're going to
consider in retrospect that you wonder
what the other thing could have been.
If you can't escape regrets when it
comes to making a decision between
multiple choices, what you have to look
at is not only what thing do I want, but
which regret could I live with?
If regrets are inescapable,
you have to choose which one you want.
Okay? So, I have to choose which regret
I want. So, you're looking at a choice.
You have things in front of you.
Which of these two could I bear living
with the regret of?
And that makes decisions an awful lot
easier, right? Because it switches us
from a place of uh scarcity and fear
about the future and it helps to project
us forward and think, okay, which of
these am I really which of these could I
not bear myself to live without? So, for
instance, with me moving to America last
year,
it was a big move.
I'm I was 33 34 at the time.
Not exactly the archetype you should
have. I always felt like I should have
had my [__] together and my life sorted
by the age of 34. So moving to a new
country at this time is a bit really.
But if I had the opportunity to do this
podcast, to become one of the best in
the world at what I do, to pursue my
passion, my curiosity, and I didn't do
it, I couldn't have lived with that
regret.
But in that case, hindsight's a
wonderful thing, right? Because you
could have come here and it could have
just [__] bombed.
It could have done
and you would have then looked back on
that decision as um
but at least I don't have the open loop
anymore, right? I can live with the
regret of selling an events business in
the UK and trying to make it work in
America and then going back to the UK
with my tail between my legs and going I
gave it a shot. It didn't work. I
couldn't live with the regret of
wondering what if I'd had the conviction
to follow my passions and go out to
America and see if I could make it work.
There's a when people are at that fork
in the road, the problem is they look
off into the two directions that are in
front of them is both
both directions are completely shrouded
in darkness. There's so it's it's that
we go down one of the routes and then
you know based on the outcome in
hindsight we then
attach regret or um
you can post rationalize pretty much
anything. I do agree. Uh but a few
things here people
I've got one particular example in my
mind where I was meant to buy I was
going to buy um I was going to acquire a
business and we we've been acquiring a
few businesses recently at Flight Story.
It's going to acquire a business and I
didn't in the end and it turned out to
be a really really fantastic business
and so in hindsight I'm going I [__]
up. That's a regret. And I think about
it sometimes I'm like damn should have
bought that business but it could have
gone another way and my my perspective
of the regret now would be entirely
different. And I'd be like, I'm amazing.
I made a fantastic decision. But but the
answer and my like regret didn't come
until
the game had been played out.
And that's what I'm thinking about with
the nature of regret. It's like, well,
it's difficult, right? Because you are
correct. If you take a chance and that
chance doesn't work out, then maybe you
regret the other thing.
But you can you can believe in advance.
Okay, even if I take the chance and it
doesn't work out, at least I know that
it didn't work out. for business
decisions, ones that are a little bit
more easily replaceable,
as opposed to big life decisions, you
know,
I I remember when I was uh much younger,
21, I think 22, and I I needed to decide
about whether or not I was going to go
and do the season in a bea or I was
going to stay at home and earn and and
save money and stuff. I was 21, like or
22, I think. It doesn't matter. You know
what I mean? And I I I realized even
though I didn't have this model in my
mind at the time, I was like, this might
be the last time that I get the
opportunity to do this. I'm going to go
and do a masters next year and then I'm
going to go straight into running this
nightlife business.
I I I probably should do this. I
probably should. And there was just
something that compelled me to go and do
it. And I went and spent and the seven
weeks that I spent in a uh although I
don't remember all of it, my memories of
it are quite fond. And I think [__]
yeah, like I did I did the I did the
thing. And it just helps, I think,
people to get past the fear of
failure and of regret, especially in
retrospect.
Regret isn't necessarily a bad thing.
The reason that it exists is because you
cared about something. You cared about
something enough to actually be bothered
by it. And you know what? When you're
describing the liberating first point of
um the reason why regret exists, it made
me think of this thing I read about
jugglers, which I wrote about a little
bit um in my first book where they they
believe that no juggler can juggle more
than 14 balls at once. They think
there's just because of the laws of
physics, the size of the human hand,
it's impossible for a juggler to juggle
more than 14 balls at once. And that
speaks to the nature of um limitation.
There's only a certain amount of balls
you can pick and all the ones you don't
pick. And it's kind of like the the old
analogy I used to sometimes talk about
with like I love waffles but I love a
six-pack. I'd love to have like a
six-pack or an eight pack or whatever. I
can't have both. The the story that I
can only have one is what makes either
special.
Yeah. Correct.
Waffles, you know, like the six-pack is
only great because it's a story of the
waffles I didn't have.
Correct.
And so I might regret have but it's but
it's because of the scarcity and the the
nature of us having to make like a
finite set of choices in life. That's
why six-packs are um having a six-pack
is so admirable. And it's the same like
you can't have a world where things are
special where where you don't have
regret.
Precisely. So there's another another
rule that I absolutely love which is you
can have anything you want but you can't
have everything you want.
Yeah.
Right. You have to sacrifice
most things in the medium term in order
to be able to facilitate progress toward
one thing. Right. Uh this is a a really
great insight from Oliver Burkeman's
4,000 Weeks. Has he been on?
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Great guy. Did you when you
were going through that, do you remember
the choose in advance what you're going
to suck at mindset?
I can't remember that.
Really good. Really cool. Very
interesting uh mental model to use. So
you have a uh plan for the next six
months, right? Or the next year.
By doing a thing,
other things are going to have to be
sacrificed. I want to grow my business.
Okay, maybe your social life is going to
take a little bit of a hit. Maybe your
fitness is going to take a bit of a hit.
Or I want to become I want to get into a
relationship. Okay. Well, you're
probably not going to be able to get as
much sleep. Maybe you're going to have
to uh your business is going to get less
of your attention. Whatever it might be.
By focusing on one thing, you inevitably
end up having to sacrifice focus on
other things. Now, the problem that you
and me and maybe a lot of the people
listening to this that are type A
go-getters that want to be able to have
it all will feel is as soon as they
start to feel something slip, they go,
"Oh, [__] [__] fuck." Like, I'm I'm
supposed to stay lean. I'm supposed to
say stay healthy and fit and whatever,
whatever. And you go. By choosing in
advance the things that you're going to
suck at, the price that you're going to
pay in order for success within which
whichever domain it is, it allows you to
feel ease and acceptance when that
particular domain does start to drop
away. So for instance, this year writing
a book, going to do some live shows
toward the end of the year, going to
continue doing the podcast and I'm doing
some other bits and pieces as well. My
fitness is going to have to take a hit
the start of this year. I accepted the
fact that I'm probably going to get a
combination of smaller, fatter, and
slower throughout this year, but that's
fine. That's the price that I'm prepared
to pay. And I I made that deal with
myself in advance. Okay, I'm condition
fitness is going to take a little bit of
a hit. I'll hold on to it as best I can.
This isn't me being complacent about it,
but I'm going to let it let it slip. And
it is such a powerful insight that you
can have anything you want, but not
everything you want.
And I think that's liberating. It's all
the things you couldn't have. And like I
said a second ago with a six-pack, I
often think about a six-pack because I
look I think what makes that socially
valuable? There's a social currency to
it. And all it is is lines on your
stomach. It's a story, though.
Oh, yeah. I mean, this is the the thing
about people that go to the gym. The uh
physique that you build is attractive.
Feels good when you're naked and the
other person's got their arms wrapped
around you or whatever, right? Like
that's that's a big part of it, don't
get me wrong. But what it's also a part
of is it shows the kind of person that
you are to be able to achieve that kind
of physique. Someone who is
self-disciplined, who is self motivated,
who can do hard things, who can deal
with pain, which is like kind of sexy.
uh they're conscientious, they're
reliable, they're disciplined,
delay gratification,
delay gratification.
Uh all of these things that is the story
which is told by the way that you look,
right? By your physique. And I really
really like that that a six-pack is a
story of all of the waffles I didn't
eat.
Mhm.
Is great. And the same thing goes for
whatever pursuit you choose. You know,
the the the podcasting thing, right? and
the differences that you've noticed in
your ability to go from brain to mouth
over the last three years or so since
you've been doing the podcast
and mine as well. Definitely
that is a story of all of the hours that
I didn't spend
watching Netflix or scrolling Tik Tok or
doing whatever you know it's the days
and days and days of research and
listening back to myself and time with
my speech coach working on diction
sitting in front of a microphone with a
guest doing all of these things and
that's the layers of paint again you
know to look at one of the best
communicators in the world or artists in
the world or dancers or musicians or
sports people or whatever it is it is a
story of all of the things that they
sacrificed in order to get themselves
there. Okay? Do you want that? Don't
look at the things that they've got.
Look at the things that they've
sacrificed because that's the price that
you have to pay to be in that position.
When you're alone at night and you're
mulling, contemplating, when you're in
the gym lifting weights, and you think
about the work you still have to do to
become the optimal version of Chris
Williamson,
what is that? What is the work you have
left to do on a personal level?
Be mindful.
Pay attention.
Be focused. Be disciplined. Keep
promises to myself.
Tell the truth.
Those are the principles. Those are most
of the principles.
And the reason is we spoke about this
last night.
The number of paths that your life can
go down in the future are so varied and
so difficult to predict that any hard
and fast plan will be completely
destroyed by six months of intense
growth. Two years ago, I couldn't have
predicted that I would be living in
America doing this thing. Two years ago,
you wouldn't have predicted that the
show is where you are and you're on
British Airways and etc., etc., right?
So, having any rigid plan isn't going to
work. having a bunch of principles is
the things that I still need to work on
in terms of deficiencies are I need to
be more disciplined with my use around
my phone. I know that that's a huge crux
for me. I need to continue to work on uh
being emotionally open and vulnerable uh
specifically publicly uh as someone that
was very
ashamed about being made to feel weak in
school. That is a large hurdle for me to
get over because I only recently opened
up about bullying with David Gogggins of
all people because I felt like, you
know, this guy's been through so much.
Who is it? What is it for me to say? Oh,
I was a bit lonely in school and people
like picked on me and stuff. [sighs]
Why does that matter?
What?
Solving the the the vulnerability
hurdle.
I think that anything that you are
not fully prepared to open up about, and
this doesn't mean that we're supposed to
be, you know, transparent to the world
around us, but even to yourself, you
know, to be able to take the idea, the
smell, the notion in your head and form
it into words
suggests that you haven't internalized
it, understood it, transcended it, done
the work right on it.
And also when you asked at the very
beginning, what is it that you're trying
to serve people through the podcast and
and and through the work that I do?
It's very difficult for people to find a
role model that they can genuinely
feel an affinity with because most of
the people that you look up to are
talented or or or successful in some
way. And by design, that means that you
don't have that much in common if you're
just starting out on your journey.
The difference is and the beauty of this
kind of a platform, people can scroll
back five years on my podcast on the
Chris Williamson YouTube channel and
they can see episode one in my old
office in Newcastle Pontine with a
single Blue Yeti on a 16 pound mic stand
with my friend that was rowing the
Atlantic solo and hear me bumble my way
through an episode as I say mhm every
other second with a different accent
with different lighting and cameras and
skills and everything. So you can track
that journey over time and you go if you
have even a modicum of admiration or
appreciation for many people.
If you can see them from their very
beginning and think, "Wow, that's even
shittier than I am."
That gives people hope that they can go
through it. And I think that
being able to be more
open and vulnerable about the challenges
that I've faced in my past should help
other people to feel less alone. Now,
I've opened up a lot. I've opened up
about depression uh throughout my 20ies,
uh about the bullying, about all these
sorts of things. But it's like, okay, so
where's the deeper lesson? Where's the
deeper lesson? What else can I take from
this? And
I think that would be that would be
good. That would be a good thing for me
to
to learn. And one final thing would
maybe be
uh getting out of my head a little bit.
Um
we both of us
are
monetizing cerebral horsepower, right?
Like the primary
resource that we have are our thoughts
and then our ability to communicate
them. But the problem with that is that
it means that you live a lot of your
life up in your head. And the people
that are listening may feel the same.
You love listening to Steve's podcast or
my podcast or whatever. Okay. How do we
go from thought to action? It's what we
were talking about earlier on. How do
you avoid being so cerebral that you
don't ever get into this sort of
embodied state? This really great guy
called Ian McGillchrist. He wrote a book
called The Master and His Emissary.
Neuroscientist but also a philosopher.
He looked at the uh Isisle of Man TT
riders. So, for the people that don't
know, Isle of Man is a small island off
the coast of the UK and these superbikes
race around it, but it's potholes and
drystone walls and b-roads and grass
verges and every single year people die.
And they looked at the speed of the
decisions that the riders were making.
And what they realized was that it was
so quick that it couldn't be conscious
that there wasn't time for the
prefrontal cortex to get the decision
through. It had to be more limbic. It
had to be more ease and grace. So the
goal is for them to get out of their own
way, right? It's for them to be
embodied. And I think that, you know, if
if you were to say, what's the price
that you pay to be me? One of them would
be very very much in my head very much
thinking, assessing, overassessing,
analyzing. And it's beautiful. I love
the takeaways that I get. I love the
insights that I have around the world,
around theories, around mental models,
around Oh my god. So, if we look at the
fact that um women want to be
approached, but men are scared of
approaching because of this creepiness.
Oh my god, there's two theories. And we
bring them together and we go, wow,
that's how downstream from me, too.
There can be challenges that are both
created for men and women in this dating
world. I'm like, [__] that's cool. But
the only way that you can do that is if
you think and think and think and think.
You're 35. You you referenced how ideas
generally are like a smell that that
appears and
gradually we try and figure out where
that smell is coming from. We also
talked about regret. So bringing those
concepts together as a 35year-old man
now if you were to forecast off into the
future
what your regrets are. What smells of
regret
would you forecast now that you're going
to experience when when we sit here when
you're 14 you go do you know what the
mistake I made at 35
done this and that. Yeah. Well, the I
mean the embarrassing thing about this
is if you look back at what you regret
from 10 years ago, it's probably still
the same [__] that you regret now.
Yeah.
I think that our regrets stay with us
because we're the same. You know, you
are the common denominator between all
of the experiences in your life. All of
my partners, all of the breakups that I
go through are bitter and my ex ends up
being a dick. Okay. Well, what do all of
your exes have in common?
You.
Yeah.
You're the common denominator between
all of them. So I think if someone is
asking themselves this question and goes
what am I going to regret in 10 years
time? What do you regret from 10 years
ago is a good place to start. So for me
um
fearing less. So I fear uh making big
changes. I move very slowly with
decisions. Whether this be with uh life,
whether this be with the business, um
bringing in team members, delegating
control and responsibilities,
taking risks, doing new things, new
projects, it's served me very well
because I make very few errors in
business, but I leave an awful lot on
the table because I don't take risk.
So, and the reason that I don't take
risk is because of
scarcity mindset, fear, concern of the
future. Um,
self-doubt. You talked about imposter
syndrome, the voice,
self-doubt. Self-doubt to a degree, but
it is more fear than that. It's just
it's more ambient than it being
self-doubt. It's just there. It's just
this cloud that lurks. And I go,
uncertainty. What about the uncertainty?
Right? And this is another thing from
Peterson uh where he says you have to
consider the price you pay for in
action. People presume that in action
has no cost. You don't get to not make a
choice. Not making a choice is still
making a choice. Every minute that goes
by that this decision is undone
is a choice. I teach you about one of my
favorite bro science concepts that I
came up with. So it's called anxiety
cost, right? you know about opportunity
cost by doing a thing you don't do
another thing.
I believe that the longer that you wait
before you do a thing that needs doing,
all of those minutes that you spend
thinking about the thing that needs to
be done could have been gotten rid of
had you have just done the thing. So,
for an example,
uh your daily routine resets every
morning when you wake up. You have to
walk the dog and meditate and do your
breath work and read in your journal and
do whatever.
If you do those things earlier in the
day, you get to spend the rest of the
day in just this bliss, right? This
self- congratulatory, noble, high horse
bliss about all of these things you did.
Whereas, if you leave them until the end
of the day, you have to spend all of
those minutes thinking, "Oh, I got to do
the meditation when I get home and can't
forget to write in the journal." That's
anxiety cost. And that's a really good
compelling reason why you should make
decisions as soon as you're ready to
make them because you will get rid of
these wasted minutes which you'll never
get back. You're never going to get
those back. Your brief time on this
planet, 4,000 weeks,
and you're going to minimize the anxiety
cost by doing things sooner. So for me,
definitely fearing less would be one of
them. Chris, this conversation's been
immense. Diverse, honest, vulnerable,
everything I love about this show.
You're an incredibly
talented
wise speaker and within that what I see
is I see repetitions. I don't see
someone that came out of the womb with
your insight but I also see a really
genuine curiosity which you just can't
fake. I will never be able to fake that.
I don't you know we were talking at
dinner last night about the guy sat next
to us with the shoes on and the and
you're saying why is he wearing those
shoes and why has the waitress got that
belt on? is your your sort of natural
disposition to curiosity and it is of
tremendous value for the world because I
can take so much from it without having
to do the hard work. And the I think the
secondary piece there is your ability to
distill the complex into the simple.
That is incredibly powerful. And that's
exactly what you do on modern wisdom
over and over again. And I've I've
watched and observed that show evolve
and continue to evolve into something
which is
I mean if I could invest I would invest.
I would back that train where that
train's going. So, it's I think it's
incredibly important for people to go
and check out your show modern wisdom if
they haven't already. I'm sure a lot of
people have, but it is just such an
unbelievably rich source of inspiration,
um, education and humanity as well. And
I think that's a lot of what we lean
towards here is that s the human side of
these things and you provide that in
abundance. So, thank you for this
conversation. I feel like we could talk
for [__] hours. This is a problem
where these things actually have to end
at some point cuz I'm sure there'll be a
part two in future. I hope. Um, we do
have a closing tradition on this podcast
where the last guest leaves a question
for the next guest as you know and
there's a question been left for you.
This is maybe the longest paragraph I've
seen in this book so far. [snorts] Okay,
so the question left for you is [sighs]
go back to the most painful or
emotionally challenging moment or period
you had as a boy.
What would you say to that boy now?
speaking directly to him to help him
through that experience.
Difference is I know who wrote that
question.
You do? Yes.
Yeah. That's the problem of having too
many friends in Austin that fly out
here. So, uh, thanks for that, mate.
And I have to say, we might as well let
the cat out of the bag. He also knew
that you were coming on next, so he
wrote that question for you.
I also bumped him for coffee yesterday,
so he might have written a particularly
different Yeah. Yeah. [laughter] Yeah.
Sorry. Um, so both of us have uh taken
an interest in psychedelics recently and
on a small dose of mushrooms uh a long
while ago I saw a version of me in the
corner and what I realized was that that
boy was worthy of love and acceptance.
And if I could see
him struggling through loneliness at
school and a lack of
support from friends,
uh a sense of
solitude that like was pathological,
like just straight up loneliness, right?
I would have told him that I was proud
of him for getting through the things
that he's got through. I would have
said,
"You're working hard. You're worthy of
acceptance and love.
You don't need to offer the world
anything in order for it to love you
back. You don't need to offer people
gifts or VIP entries or insights from a
podcast.
It's hard to be someone that thinks
about things deeply because there is a
inkind association of suffering that
comes along with it. Like it's both a
blessing and a curse to feel things so
very deeply.
But I think that the price is worth it.
I think that the depth of enjoyment that
you get out of life is worth it. And for
that young boy that I saw that was sat
on the ground that was alone. I'd have
picked him up and cuddled him and said,
"You're doing great,
Chris." Thank you. Thank you, mate.
Thank you so much. That's honestly
beautiful. And I think um I speak for
many when I say that that's the message
a lot of people in their own lives will
need to hear right now. So, thank you so
much.
I appreciate it. I've really enjoyed
coming on. It's been great that both of
us are following this little path
parallel train tracks going forward.
Cheers. Let's see where it takes us.
[music]
Over the last couple of how long? Maybe
four months, I've been changing my diet,
shall I say? Many of you who have really
been paying attention this to this
podcast will know why. I've sat here
with some incredible health experts. And
one of the things that's really come
through for me which has caused a big
change in my life is the need for us to
have these superfoods, these green
foods, these vegetables. And then a
company I love so much and a company I'm
an investor in and then a company that
sponsored this podcast and that I'm on
the board of recently announced a new
product which absolutely spoke to
exactly where I was in my life and that
is Hu and they announced Daily Greens.
Daily Greens is a product that contains
91 superfoods, nutrients, and
plant-based ingredients, which helps me
meet that dietary requirement with the
convenience that Hule always offers.
Unfortunately, it's only currently
available in the US, but I hope I pray
that it'll be with you guys in the UK,
too. So, if you're in the US, check it
out. It's an incredible product. I've
been having it here in LA for the last
couple of weeks, and it's a game
changer. Ladies and gentlemen, I am so
delighted to finally be able to announce
that one of my all-time favorite brands
are now sponsoring this podcast and that
is Whoop. All of you know that I've been
on a bit of a journey in terms of
health, performance, cognitive
performance, sleep, and all those kinds
of things. That's kind of been reflected
in the guests we've had on this podcast
and Whoop has been a huge part of my
life for many, many, many years. That's
part of the reason I also had the
founder come on the podcast. After
having Will on the podcast, I love the
brand even more. hearing about his
vision, his passion for the project,
where it came from, his own obsession
was solving a problem, which turned into
the product that is Whoop. Whoop is a
wearable health and fitness coach that
provides you with the feedback and real
actionable insights into sleep, into
recovery, into how you're training, into
your stress levels, and your overall
health. And for me, it's empowered me to
be the best version of myself across all
of those aspects of my life. The Whoop
team have very kindly offered to give
all of you a free month. So, just head
to join.woop.com/ce whoop.com/ce to
claim your device and your first free
month on us. [music]
[music]
[singing]